i mean i've had friends who've been to
prison and i know that it's
not like federal prison and
i feel like i'm someone who can adjust
to my surroundings
i i also know that it would be difficult
i'm sure
so the main idea i'm going to try to
convey to you in this video is that to
waste someone's time
is actually immoral so like i so i had
done a topless
been a part of the topless protest that
it happened a couple weeks before that
at costco and so
i had i had already
you know sort of gotten a taste for like
on the smaller scale
of like what that was like of course
then
we were covered much more heavily with
like fake blood and we even put like
these special effects makeup on
on the nipples to make it and i in some
way felt like
i was still covered up i
i definitely have some very
deeply rooted insecurities and my body
image
[Music]
you know just issues with body image and
just feeling
um feeling like oh i should be thinner
um there's a lot of things there's a lot
of things on my entire body that i'm not
happy with but on my upper body you know
it's like oh i don't like the way my
arms look
like uh there was like
there were years whenever i was younger
where like i wanted to
you know get like a boob job because i
felt like i had
small boobs and like um
and just just a lot of different things
going on for me that i
yeah i definitely felt like yeah just
just the idea of like
not having my shirt on and just like all
that exposure to these parts of my body
that i'm not
um super like happy about
uh i'm i don't know i'm
i'm pretty much willing to do anything
with that frame of mind if i feel that
it's going to be effective
and get that message out there money
fame power respect
sex these are the powerful motives
shaping human behavior in politics
in our private lives in the economic
sphere
but yes yes y'all especially here on
social media especially on the internet
let me go through that list one more
time for you
money fame power
respect sex
not necessarily in that order for some
people
sex is the top priority for some people
it's money or the fame
you can shuffle that deck of cards and
each time have a different one come up
on top this is not about saving the
planet
this is not about lobbying government
for political reform
this is not about promoting the health
benefits of a vegan diet
this is not about educating people doing
educational outreach so that they
understand
the unbelievable suffering that the
dairy industry creates that the fur
industry creates
the unbelievable suffering that's
required just to put meat on their plate
no nope this is about
money fame power
respect sex and you know what this
headline
fails to convey to you this whole
article fails to convey you there were
actually
four protesters that ran the stage four
but three of them didn't get naked who's
this woman
who's this muslim fundamentalist woman
she looks like she's at least a hundred
pounds overweight
i guess she's a muslim fundamentalist
vegan protester why isn't she getting
naked
why is it only this girl look we got to
talk about the politics of beauty and
body image rolled into this too
priya is the first one to run the stage
fully clothed
well if you actually believe that
getting naked would save the animals
what
this muslim woman she doesn't care
enough to show us her 100 pound
overweight
middle-aged or elderly body i can't
really guess her age
is it only young conventionally
attractive people who are going to get
naked
to save the planet is there some reason
why is it actually about
being sexually attractive is that the
point of this is it supposed to be an
erotic
display and what about this girl this
girl just participated in the protest
but decided nope
i'm not showing my body
if you look i agree this is not an
effective form of protest
if you go back to world war one there
was a golden era of nude
protests where the nudity was not erotic
at all it was primarily to prevent the
police from brutalizing the protesters
and it was a show of
christian humility and kind of abject
subjugation where people would march
naked in the streets to oppose the war
and it wasn't sexy of course it was a
lot of elderly people it was a lot of
flabby out of shape
elderly people it was uh humiliating
they were themselves being humiliated
through this nude march
and they were humiliating the
authorities and humiliating others
because like well
if you think you're gonna round us up
and put us in uh
put us in paddy wagons you're gonna
arrest us you're gonna have to lay hands
on us naked
so the world has changed a great deal in
a hundred years and that would have been
more than 100 years ago now those nude
protests against
against world war one this woman you
know
she's referred to as topless in the
headlines and the news coverage
and i completely believe she only did
this stunt
so that she would appear in headlines in
newspapers get
news coverage but you know she's not
just topless
i can't say that she's wearing pants
she's not wearing
trousers she doesn't have any pockets
there for her house keys or her wallet
i mean you know she is as close to naked
as can possibly be
she's wearing some kind of skin tight
yoga pants you know i i can't call those
pants at all
that's some kind of some kind of long
underwear
she's got on there to add to the
revealing or erotic effect i guess of
her being
as nude as possible and again it's not
the middle-aged people it's not the
educated people it's not the natural
leaders
of the vegan movement who are taking on
this role of course
no i mean what's what's the next step
for this guys
what is the future of veganism this
group
direct action everywhere they they
initialize their name as
dxe direct action everywhere they came
onto the scene promising
that they had something profoundly
fundamentally better
to offer than any other animal rights
movement
in the past and all they are doing
is reinventing the stupidity
of peta from 20 years ago
step by step they're catching up with
the same lame methods
the same non-functional techniques that
peta use
and they're going to get the same
non-results
but the one thing they will get is the
one thing they
really want money
fame power respect
sex all these people are on an ego trip
and i'm sure if you could travel back in
time to 1992
there were a whole lot of people in that
organization peta
people for the ethical treatment mammals
who are on the same ego trip
reinventing the wheel but it's a broken
wheel
and it's going to roll down the same
hill with the same results
in the year 2019 it is fair to say that
vegan activism has settled into
a few familiar grooves a few
repetitious patterns that we see again
and again
there was a time maybe just five years
ago when a lot of these ideas were fresh
and new
there was a time when the earthlings
experienced they were the first people
to put together this idea of sitting
silently wearing a mask holding an open
laptop computer
showing slaughterhouse footage that was
a new and exciting idea
i think people including myself first
found out about
on tumblr that was before veganism was
was so big on youtube
tumblr was where it was at for people
sharing that idea the earthlings
experience spread
other groups knocked off and modified
the idea etcetera there was a time when
each of these techniques
in terms of street theater open protest
and even digital slacktivism such as
more engaging now there was a time when
these things were exciting or new and
that time is now in the past so
increasingly i have people sending me
sympathetic email reflecting
whether they're just looking at what
they've done in the last few months or
in the last decade
that when they get involved in vegan
activism they feel that their time is
being wasted
so the main idea i'm going to try to
convey to you in this video is that to
waste someone's time
is actually immoral this may not occur
to us
because in our intimate lives uh
relations between
husband and wife boyfriend and
girlfriend uh even grandparents and
grandchildren
there's a sense in which we're expected
to behave
as if wasting time is
no waste at all that you know don't
drive for three hours
just so you can see your grandparents
and sit around kind of doing nothing in
particular for several hours and drive
back
this is um part of the pulley tests of
the bourgeois class that everyone ought
to have
time to waste and we're not to behave as
if it is nothing
it is that it is merely gracious to
waste one's time with someone else
well this doesn't extend to things like
politics education work
really it's a fiction it's a fiction in
our times
maybe very roughly analogous to the way
in which people used to engage in animal
sacrifice
to welcome a guest into their homes
taking something tremendously precious
and destroying it as if to prove that
it's nothing
as a symbolic way of of receiving a
guest well the sacrifices we make for
one another in the 21st century are
largely sacrifices of time and to a much
lesser extent
sacrifices of money uh several different
people wrote in to me about their
experience
with recent protests just in the last
couple days since my most recent
critiques on this issue one of them was
describing to me
what it was like to drive five hours
each way to attend a protest that he
felt accomplished nothing and didn't
even say anything interesting to the
people
attending the contract so you're talking
about driving
five hours stay in a hotel this is
time as well as money being spent attend
this event
drive back i assume he's only got one
night in hotel and not two
this is a big sacrifice if you're
talking about people who are raising
kids and have a full-time job
it's a big big sacrifice and what do you
get in return for that sacrifice
for the most part what's going on within
these familiar grooves and patterns and
veganism
it's accomplishing nothing but providing
one spectacle after another one occasion
after another
for vegans to pat themselves in the back
for vegans to affirm their own sense of
identity now i'm not going to say that
at zero value
somebody asked me this question on the
internet a few days ago someone asked me
do i really feel
this kind of activism has zero value and
i said no i would not say
zero the value is greater than zero but
most of the value is just in giving
vegans a chance to meet
one another there are lots of people who
met their boyfriend and later got
married
at a vegan animal rights protest or an
anti-fur protest or whatever
there's a sense in which meeting other
people could be the basis
for more meaningful forms of activism in
the future but in most of these cases
that is the only positive thing i can
say about it
the events themselves are meaningless
they're a waste of time and the actual
lectures i mean
there's a reason why most of them don't
get uploaded to youtube
what's the actual the actual content of
the lectures is people standing there
prompting the audience to cheer like
probably guys to applaud
the speaker in response to the speaker
telling the audience
how wonderful they are i mean i made fun
of james aspie for this you know
only so many months ago james aspie
stands there and gives a speech to
vegans and it's like
you have to realize you people are the
future
you people are saving the planet you
people are saving the animals you're the
best
people the crowd goes
it's they're applauding him applauding
themselves it's like a it's a self
it's a cycle of self praise that's going
on here anyway
i i find it deeply embarrassing but
again above all else it's a waste of
time
what does it mean to say that there's a
question of morality in wasting
someone's time
several years ago i had a chance um i
think a very remote chance
to enter a master's degree and phd
program
at a university in montreal canada now
why did i why did i gesture like this
because i was living in saskatchewan
canada
and my wife of the time my wife and i
together
devoted a considerable amount of time
and money to fly
in an airplane from saskatchewan
to montreal just to have what was i
think
supposed to be a one-hour meeting with
this professor and he only talked to us
about 15 minutes
i could get into the details of that but
it was
truly hurtful in that circumstance this
guy was a professor of buddhism
and i had prepared for the meeting i'd
read his phd thesis i got his phd thesis
he had not published a whole lot of
research in buddhism since then so i
went and got a copy of this phd thesis
and i read it and i was prepared to
really talk about
my own research in buddhist philosophy
and his research in buddhist philosophy
and i show up as someone who has years
and years of background on the
discipline
and i get fobbed off with a kind
of aimless 15-minute pep talk and i'm
told look you can study here if you want
to
um i didn't feel so upset about it at
that moment
it took a little while for it to sink in
but i was really being robbed of one of
the very few opportunities to get higher
education i would ever have before or
since
and you know this was a person who had
who had no respect for the fact had no
respect for our time
for the extent to which he was wasting
our time also
again hotels in montreal are not cheap
the flights are not flights within
canada are not cheap you're better off
flying to thailand
or flying to las vegas than flying
between any two cities in canada it's
miserable
it's a huge waste of money and you think
this person has no respect for my time
and in a sense they have no respect for
me as a human being so this is a
minor and yet crushing disappointment
that had really serious
the long-term uh long-term effects of my
life and
you know i've got to say um as detached
as i may be
about this experience as low as my
expectations may have been going into
this meeting with this professor
it left me with a deep and lasting
sense of resentment um it's possible
i'll meet that guy at some point that
has happened sometimes where i
meet professors of buddhism years later
after my negative interactions with the
bahama
say hey you know do you want to know
what impact that had on my life for the
next 10
20 years like for you this may have been
a casual and flippant decision
but like you know what you make
especially with graduate students
undergraduate institute you're casually
making decisions
that have huge impacts on your student's
life so you know
the question of respect in that case we
had an appointment i mean i wrote to him
in advance and made the appointment
and then we booked the trip so to
disrespect somebody to that extent
um to to to waste their time
there are real real questions of
morality involved morality and
immorality
and you know especially with left-wing
politics
the extent to which everybody left of
center not even
everybody on the left they get used to
such
hyperbolic over-the-top exaggerated
ideological language extreme language of
praise
and also extreme language of criticism
you know the fulmination against the
status quo um
extreme language claiming that the
government is totally immoral that the
economic system is totally within
everything
everything has to be uh resolved and
some kind of
crescendo some kind of terrible uprising
revolution and so on
this is um antithetical to a more
down-to-earth pragmatic planning process
where you make it clear what it is
you're offering people what it is they
should expect
what use it is you're going to make of
their time and
where people feel respected people feel
that what they were offered what they
were promised
is what they were really given so
whether that's that you have a
conference
where you tell people look if you come
to this conference i'm going to give you
you know one hour on stage when you get
maybe 20 minutes where you until you get
on stage you get to speak
i'm going to introduce you to these and
these people you're going to get to eat
at a dinner and you're going to get
introduced like what is it that you're
offering as a vegan movement at a vegan
event
um is there a certain workshop is there
something really of practical value
is there some educational value is there
some training you're gonna get out of
attending this thing
um because people are making serious
sacrifices in terms of time money i know
one female vegan activist and she has
two kids
and a job not a full-time job part-time
job and she's raising two kids
and you know time is precious to her and
she was
kicked out of a vegan group they exiled
her because she did not
meet their quota for attending a certain
number of hours of street protests
per month so they wanted a commitment
for if you wanted to be inside the
organization
you had to be spending whatever was
eight hours a month minimum or so you
had to spend a certain hours
standing on the street at these protests
all right
so i have an email here sorry uh this
was a public comment
on facebook from a woman named gene i'm
just going to use her first name
but i assume this is someone whose first
language is english you'll see why i
mentioned that here
gene writes in hi isil i hope you could
give me some advice on how to move
forward
i've been an activist for a few years
with a few local vegan organizations
and anonymous for the voiceless so
anonymous the voiceless are one of the
groups
who stand around in a mask silently
unfortunately
none of that ever worked to an extent
that was justifying
the amount of time i put in it so
upon moving to another state in europe i
eventually quit
so those are the crucial words here
none of that ever worked to an extent
that was justifying the amount of time
i put into it for each so she goes on to
say more about her situation she's 20
years
22 years old a good illustrator or
painter
speaks several languages lives below the
poverty line
um is trying to study philosophy in a
spare time
okay so you got you got no money
um you've barely got a home i don't
actually
there's no mention here of a job um
well you know let me tell you something
you may feel
you and the audience may feel right now
that watching this youtube video was a
waste your time
if so i apologize but the level of
effort
both for the creator and for the
audience that goes into watching this
youtube video
it's exponentially more efficient than
showing up at a street protest or even
showing up at a conference
like an academic conference that are
going to see a lecture in veganism and
hoping
to hear something interesting or be able
to speak to some
hoping to make that connection so gene
for your situation
given what you've told me given what
you've told me i know just
one form of vegan activism that won't
waste your time
that'll bring some positive people into
your life where you can use your
artistic talent if you're good at
illustrating
if you're good at making images i only
know
one option i can recommend to you that
you can do in poverty from your tiny
apartment where you're living below the
poverty line
doesn't require that you own a car
doesn't require that you drive five
hours each year
i only know one option and it's it's
right here
on youtube so look guys there was a book
years ago called weapons of the week
terrible book written by a communist
[ __ ] and you want to taco it was a
hit book
weapons of the week and we have this we
have this phrase still in english
language complete garbage
uh in terms of political science and
anthropology
but but but let me tell you something
in the 21st century right now standing
on the street
chanting slogans these
these are not the weapons of the week
handing out pamphlets
no no no no no options like youtube
options like youtube these really are
effective weapons of the week
and hey i have a lot to complain about
youtube i'm really actively considering
quitting forever
right now because my life has come to
such a bad closure
to be frank it's been one tragedy after
another for me personally professional
education
otherwise i'll make more videos talking
about that but the good news is
uh if you take the time to make
something beautiful
something interesting something
thought-provoking here on youtube it
lasts forever
it stays up whether you think of it as a
work of art or
or is something closer to having a
conversation with someone in a cafe
uh if you want to have conversations
with a whole bunch of strangers
try to spread the message of veganism
keep in mind
i've had more than 3.5 million
conversations now more than 3.5 million
total views or total viewings
on this channel there's no way i could
have accomplished that
standing on a street corner holding a
placard chanting slow there's no way i
could have
accomplished that wearing a mask or
participating these other forms of
protest
and for you maybe just
maybe you'll be luckier than i was
because i come out of this veganism
thing
burnt and broken
[Laughter]
but um you know maybe you'll be
maybe you'll be one of the lucky ones so
my advice to you is
be virtuous but be lucky
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice
yes